the remaining population the area gets
to be displaced and and this is the uh
the tragedy of every air strike causing
more problem and forcing more
Palestinian to displacement which can of
course Mount the pressure uh on on
Health Care Facility as well as
evacuation Zone as we're we're getting
[Applause]
into
yes sir oh my god did you hear
that oh my
god oh that's the hospital that's the
hospital that's the
hospital oh my
God are you guys hearing
this are you guys hearing this all the
debris oh my god so let's bring in Maran
bishar aer's senior political analyst
who's been watching this with me that
was the scene uh just about almost half
an hour ago now when we were reporting
uh live with hany hany Mahmud in in Rafa
and several explosions were going on
there behind him as he was uh talking to
us uh we saw and heard these explosions
we heard drones buzzing constantly we
heard the sound of of sirens going by
people screaming and running this is
this is daily life in so much in Gaza
now it seems and it's not we we were
focused at that point in time on RAF but
it seemed at the same time today there
were more of the same bombings in uh
east of
kanun and in jabalia and more of the
same directed
against civilian
infrastructure and these are the ones
that we just know about and report on in
fact there's already a report we cannot
verify it but there's already a report
that there were journalists in the
Kuwaiti H in the vicinity of the Kuwaiti
hospitals you know hopefully no one is
hurt badly but this is the kind of a
daily exercise it's a daily exercise and
genocide it's almost experimental
genocide that the Israelis are trying on
the Palestinian uh people and it's been
going on for um more than 10 weeks now
if you remember two months ago around
this time when the American president
visited Israel he pleaded with them you
know whether uh sincerely or otherwise
to minimize civilian casualties and
since then with each and American
official arriving in Israel including
yesterday the Secretary of Defense we
see
intensification of the bombings of
Civilian areas in Gaza it is as if you
want to plead with the Americans please
don't come anymore and please don't ask
the Israelis to to minimize the civilian
casualties because every time you do the
Palestinians get even more hit than
before you've come to the region and I
think the Israeli government has a plan
and the plan is either to
demolish decimate
Gaza in an act of Revenge or in an act
to turn the population against
Hamas or as an act to put pressure on
Hamas to NE neate the release of the
captives which makes it a massive Act of
Terror why do we call it a Max a massive
Act of Terror because you are
discriminately bombing entire civilian
structures including hospitals and
schools targeting civilians in order to
put political pressures on their leaders
in this case Hamas this is a massive Act
of Terror Israel should be tried for a
massive
not just the normal everyday War crime
that we know about because now we are
talking in the context of some
negotiations going on behind the scene
about releasing prisoners and captives
and so forth so this is unraveling in
front of our eyes and it's unraveling in
the entire part of Gaza and then is this
another theory now because this is
happening in the southern tip of Gaza
ra there's making it really no place
safe for anyone
and destroying more and more of the same
such as hospitals this is
definitely definitely the strategy to
push people out of
Gaza this is part and parcel of a 10 we
strategy to try to thin out as they call
it in Israel to thin out the population
of Gaza if you cannot decimate them if
you cannot kill them you make life
unlivable in Gaza you attack everywhere
with no exception and you try more and
more to push them out of Gaza the scenes
the last few
days of children
barefooted pleading for
food just goes a long way to tell you
that not only is there starvation now
being used as a weapon the weaponization
of
hunger not only there is no place for
people to seek shelter no place for
people to seek medical
treatment no place for people to
seek away away from the diseases and the
bombings that are definitely inflicting
huge suffering in
Gaza that there is the
sadistic ongoing war that really is
meant to decimate or to push people out
of the a colleague just reminded me that
perhaps we should start calling this war
for operation Sinai that perhaps this is
all about trying to push people out of
their
Homeland the just to just to pick up on
that um to in the southern uh Gaza
border is Egypt but you know the
Egyptians have made it clear at this
point that they are not going to allow
that to happen because of the effect
that it would have uh inside Egypt so
given that it it just seems like the
Palestinians are are are squeezed In
from from all sides here absolutely for
the time
being this is like uh this is like
shooting in a battle for the time being
they are all cooped up say for the time
being you're saying that could change
absolutely absolutely for the time being
they're all cooped up in even more and
more densely populated areas right we
used to talk about the open air prison
called Gaza one of the most densely if
probably the most densely populated area
with some 70 80% refugees now they've
been squeezed into even smaller more
densely populated areas and they are
still being bombed like we've just seen
in front of our eyes in plain sight
Israel bombing even a more densely
populated RAF right now eventually in
few days as the Israelis are hoping
eventually in few weeks what are you
going to do when there's
absolutely impossible to live anymore in
Gaza so I can imagine already
people rushing dashing barefooted to the
border to try to seek some kind some
kind of resite from the ongoing bombing
and starvation and disease and so on so
forth we're going to enter if you're a
Palestinian you would know that we're
now entering the two tough winter months
January and February this is going to be
absolutely miserable and now already
there are reports about spread
diseases this is because of lack of
Sanitation and lack of access to
absolutely basic things yeah absolutely
so all in all I mean the Egyptians have
made it a red line that they don't want
to this issue to be resolved at the
expense of
Egyptian whatever it is National
Security right but already also the
Americans and the Israelis are trying to
convince the Egyptians and the
jordanians to open their countries their
borders to
Palestinians guess what in
return for more American assistance to
Egypt and Jordan and other countries who
would
receive Palestinian refugees so now
while these countries are saying we
don't want this and this and the war
needs to
stop America and Israel want the war to
continue and if there's going to be
another Refugee nakba
catastrophe they're asking neighboring
countries
to shoulder the responsibility of more
refugees in return for money money in
return for American Aid to Egypt Jordan
other countries this is the American
Israeli proposition now so while these
countries have red lines but you know
there are no more red lines anymore I
mean is this where is the red line here
where are the where is international law
the thing that you learn that we learn
as we cover geopolitical issues as we
cover Wars
that the standards change with
war the standards of January of October
6th are no longer the the same standards
of the end of December the standards
have changed the values have changed and
what is permissible what is not
permissible has changed in fact so I can
see any scenario to be a probable
scenario considering the sadism and the
aggressivity and the impunity with which
the Israelis are
acting and the kind of support they
continue to get from the United
States Marwan Bashar aler senior
political analyst